[first lines; the screen shows a dark background as Lightning McQueen's voice is heard, inhales and exhales deeply]
Lightning McQueen: (inhales) Ok. Here we go. Focus. Speed, I am speed.
[The screen then shows some race cars whizzing past on a racetrack, then goes back to dark again]
Lightning McQueen: One winner, forty-two losers. I eat losers for breakfast.
[The screen then shows McQueen from the back of his left side as his car accelerates and gains on a race car. Then the screen goes dark again]
Lightning McQueen: Did I use to say that?
Mater: Yes, sir. You did!
Lightning McQueen: (opens his eyes) Aah!
Mater: Oh, shoot. You can say that all the time.
Lightning McQueen: Mater, what are you doing in here?
Mater: Well, I just don't want you to be lonely.
Lightning McQueen: Well, thank you. But, I was just preparing for a race. I need a little quiet.
Mater: Oh, right. You got it, buddy!
(Mater drove out of Lightning's trailer)
Mater: Hey, everybody! Listen up! My best friend, Lightning McQueen, needs quiet! Perfect quiet!
(Back inside Lightning's trailer)
Lightning McQueen: (chuckles) Okay, now where was I?
(inhales and close his eyes) Racing. Real racing.
(Then, the flashback appears with Doc Hudson aka the Fabulous Hudson Hornet)
Doc Hudson: (laughs) That ain't racing. That wasn't even a Sunday drive. It was one lap - racing is 500 of those. Everybody's fighting to move up, lap after lap. Inside, outside, never touching. Now that's racing.
Lightning McQueen: Well, I can't argue with the Doc Hudson.
Doc Hudson: How true? (chuckles)
(The flashback ends when Mack knocks on the door)
Mack: Hey, Lightning! Are you ready?
Lightning McQueen: Oh yeah. (opens his eyes) Lightning's ready.
[revs his engine and opens his trailer's door]
["Run that Race" song begins as Lightning looked at the pictures]
Lightning McQueen: This one's for you, Doc.
[We zoom down to the track itself as Lightning whizzes past the other racers. The title: "Cars 3" appears on the viewing screen above. Friends are shown on the crew-chief's podium in McQueen's pit stop and wearing crew-chief headsets, as they are McQueen's crew chiefs]
Sally Carrera: Go, Stickers!
Mater: [pushing past the others] Excuse me. Pardon me. Best friend comin' through. Go, McQueen! Whoo-hoo!
Maddy McGear: Lightning McQueen!
Albert: Go, 95! (honks) Woohoo!
[On the track, Lightning catches up to Cal Weathers]
Lightning McQueen: Hey, Cal! Your blinkers on!
Cal Weathers: What? No it's not. Hey! Hey! Your... blinkers on.
[Bobby Swift appears behind him]
Bobby Swift: Good comeback, Cal!
[They head into the pits]
Bob Cutlass: Into the pits, go Lightning McQueen, Bobby Swift and Cal Weathers. These three are fun to watch, aren't they, Darrell?
Darrell Cartrip: You know, Bob, I can't tell they have more fun on their off-two track.
[Guido changes McQueen's tires]
Guido: [shouts something in Italian as McQueen drives away]
Lightning McQueen: Getting a car wash too, Cal?
Cal Weathers: No. You're getting a car wash, McQueen.
Strip "The King" Weathers: Good comeback, Cal.
[watches him drive away]
[Back on the track, McQueen passes the other racers again and wins]
[Later]
Shannon Spokes: Lightning, how do you keep your focus racing against Bobby and Cal?
Lightning McQueen: I think the key is we respect each other. Theses guys are real class acts--
[Just then, he is splashed by fire extinguisher foam courtesy of Boddy and one of his pitties]
Bobby Swift: Congratulations, cupcake!
Lightning McQueen: [spits out some foam] They are gonna pay.
[In another race, Cal and Lightning become neck and neck]
[Lightning and Cal approach the finish line and Cal wins]
Team Dinoco: Go, Dinoco!
[Shannon interviews Cal]
Shannon Spokes: Great win today, Cal.
Cal Weathers: Thank you, Shannon. It was a great boost and I was--
[notices his tires blowing up]
Cal Weathers: Hey! Hey!
[sees Guido behind him]
Cal Weathers: Guido.
Guido: Pit stop.
Lightning McQueen: [laughs]
Bobby Swift: [laughs]
Cal Weathers: Oh, ha-ha. Laugh it up. Real funny.
[At Willy's Butte, Lightning is training]
Guido [speaking Italian]
Luigi: [cheers]
Mater: Keep it goin', buddy!
[In the third race, Lightning wins again]
Lightning McQueen: Whoo-hoo!
[After the race, Lightning drives by his sponsors]
Lightning McQueen: Hey, are my sponsors happy today?
Dusty Rust-eze: Stop winning for crying out loud. We're running out of bumper cream to sell. [he and Rusty laugh]
Lightning McQueen: Hey, big Tex, how's my favorite competitor?
Tex Dinoco: We were thinking of booting Cal off the Dinoco team and replacing him with you.
Cal Weathers: I know you can hear me, right? I'm right here.
Lightning McQueen: Bye, Cal. See you next week. Or not.
Tex Dinoco: Come on, Cal. I'm joking.
[At Los Angeles 500  race, Mater wears a race track like hat]
Mater: Go, little buddy. And big buddy too! Whoo-oo!
[On the track]
Lightning McQueen: How's the view back there, Bobby?
Bobby Swift: Well, you better not blink. I'll blow right past ya.
[Bob and Darrell watch]
Bob Cutlass: Well, we are witnessing some got races out there today, Darrell.
Lightning McQueen: Okay, let's see what you got!
Bobby Swift: Woohoo!
[Just then, out of nowhere, a black and blue racecar whizzes between the racers, gets passed Lightning, Bobby and Cal and crosses the finish line]
Darrell Cartrip: Holy cow!
Bob Cutlass: It's Jackson Strom for the win. A huge upset!
Darrell Cartrip: Neither Lightning nor Bobby ever saw him comin'.
[After the race, Bobby, Lightning and Cal look at Jackson on the screen]
Announcer Over P.A.: It's one thing to start fast, but we haven't seen anyone cross the line... with that kinda speed and power since a young... Lightning McQueen first arrived on the scene.
Lightning McQueen: Hey, Bobby. Who is that?
Bobby Swift: Oh, um... That's, uh, Jackson Storm.
Cal Weathers: Yeah, he's one of the rookies.
Lightning McQueen: Huh?
[Lightning drives up next to Jackson]
Jackson Storm: Thank you, guys. Thank you. No, I appreciate it. Thank you very much.
Lightning McQueen: Hey! Jackson Storm, right? Great race today.
Jackson Storm: Wow! Thank you, Mr. McQueen. You have no idea what a pleasure it is for me to finally beat you.
Lightning McQueen: Thanks. Wait a minute. Did you say "meet" or "beat"?
Jackson Storm: I think you heard me.
Lightning McQueen: Uh, what?
Reporter: Storm, can we get some pictures?
Jackson Storm: Yeah, yeah. Come on. Let's get a picture. Ya know what? Get a ton of pictures because champ here has been a role model of mine... for years now. And I mean a lot of years. Right. I love this guy.
Reporter: Storm, give us a quote What's your top speed?
Jackson Storm: I think I touched a nerve.
[The team watches]
Chick Hicks: Welcome back to Chick's Picks with Chick Hicks. I'm your host, former and forever, Piston Cup champion, Chick Hicks. Doo-doo-doo-doo. This just in... Rookie Jackson Storm slams the proverbial door on Lightning McQueen. [laughs] Oh. I couldn't have enjoyed it more if I'd beaten McQueen myself. Oh, wait, I have. [chuckles] But enough about me. Here to tell you how it happened is professional number cruncher, Miss Natalie Certain.
Natalie Certain: It's a pleasure to be here, Chick. And actually, I prefer term "Statistical Analyst".
Chick Hicks: Right. So, who is this mysterious newcomer, Jackson Storm? And why is he so darn fast?
Natalie Certain: It's no mystery is you study the data, Mr. Hicks. Jackson Storm is part of the next generation of high-tech racers. Unlike the veterans of yesterday--
Chick Hicks: [stammers] Old-timers like this guy? [laughs]
Natalie Certain: Um... Right. Storm achieves his top speeds be exploiting the numbers. I refer, of course, to racin' data. Tire pressure, downforce, weight distribution, aerodynamics, and... next-gens like Storm are taking advantage. The racing world is changing.
Chick Hicks: And for the better it if means my old pal, Lightning, is down for the count. Am I right, Certain?
Natalie Certain: Well, if I'm certain of anything, Chick, it's that this season is about to get even more interesting.
Bob Cutlass: I'll tell ya what, Darrell, Jackson Storm has certainly made an impact. We've got six more next-generation rookies in the field.
Darrell Cartrip: With six veterans fired to clear the way.
Jackson Storm: Morning, champ. How's our living legend today?
Lightning McQueen: Uh... Still very much alive, thank you. -And I would appreciate--
Jackson Storm: You know, I can't believe I get to race the Lightning McQueen.
Lightning McQueen: [sighs]
Jackson Storm: In the farewell season.
Lightning McQueen: What are you talking about?
Jackson Storm: Oh, green flag. Good luck out there, champ. You're gonna need it.
Natalie Certain: One reason Storm and the next-gens are more efficient: their ability to hole the optimum racing line every single lap.
Bob Cutlass: Win number three for the rookie sensation.
Natalie Certain: Storm's in a class of his own. And a big reason for that: training on the newest cutting-edge simulators. These machines create a... virtual racing experience so real racers never even have to go outside.
Bob Cutlass: Storm's ability to hold that line is like nothing we've ever seen.
Darrell Cartrip: Four in a row? Are you kidding me?
Natalie Certain: 2% lower drag coefficient.
Bob Cutlass: Oh, what a finish!
Natalie Certain: 5% increase downforce.
Darrell Cartrip: Lucky number seven.
Natalie Certain: 1.2% higher top speed.
Bob Cutlass: Amazing! Nine!
Chick Hicks: Piston Cup winner, Chick Hicks here with the racer takin' the circuit... by storm. Jackson Storm. Another easy win over old "Ka-chow". Or should I say, "Caboose"? 'Cause he's always in the back. Am I right?
Jackson Storm: No, no, no, Chick. McQueen is a crafty veteran champ. He's the elder statesman of the sport. Ya know? Takes everything I got to beat him.
Lightning McQueen: [sighs] You gotta be kidding me.
Reporter 1: What changes are you gonna make to get McQueen back to top?
Reporter 2: Will McQueen try new training methods?
Reporter 3: Is he prepared to retire?
Lightning McQueen: Come on, guys. Let's not overreact. It's just s slump. We'll get 'em next week Okay, that's enough. No comment.
Reporter 3: Not even about Cal Weathers retiring?
Lightning McQueen: Wait, what?
Reporter 1: Cal Weathers. He's hanging up his Light-years.
Lightning McQueen: No. No comment on that either.
Reporter 3: Wait a minute.
Natalie Certain: more changes ahead Chick every week we've seen veteran racers either retire like cal Weathers tonight or fired to make room for these younger faster racers and it's not over yet
Announcer: Hello racing fan welcome to the Los Angeles 500 final race of the Piston Cup season.
Brick Yardley: You can't do this! I have race for you guys in almost ten years!
Lightning McQueen: Brick?
Vitoline Sponsor: Sorry, Brick. My mind's made up and I'm giving your number to someone new.
Brick Yardley: Hey! I have two wins last year!
Vitoline Sponsor: All sports changed...
Lightning McQueen: Hey, Bobby. Do you know what's happening with Brick... huh? Hey... wait, you're not Bobby.
Danny Swervez: (revs his engine) Name's Danny, bro.
Jackson Storm: Hey, Champ! Where did all your friends go?
Bob Cutlass: A final check of his tires as Storm settles into the pole position
Darrell Cartrip: Boogity, boogity, boogity. let's end this season's With a great race
(The race was on, ????)
Mater: That's it, buddy!
Shannon Spokes: Forty laps to go, 40 laps to go and race leader Jackson Storm is making his way on the pit road with McQueen on his tail a good stop here could mean the difference between victory and defeat.
Lightning McQueen: Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! Faster, Guido, I need to get back out there before he does! Guido, hurry up!
Guido: But, but, but...
(Lightning ????)
Darrell Cartrip: what a pitstop by McQueen man, he just got the lead
Bob Cutlass: can he hold on it
Lightning McQueen: (panting)
Jackson Storm: Hey, McQueen! Are you all right? Listen, don't you worry, pal. You've got a good run. Enjoy your retirement!
Bob Cutlass: Storm takes back the lead!
Darrell Cartrip: Unbelievable! McQueen is fading! McQueen is fading! Fading fast!
Lightning McQueen: No! (panting) No! No! No! No! NO!
(panting and grunting)
(Suddenly, Lightning was skidded out of control. Before he reacts, one of his back tires pops, hits the wall and flies into the air)
Sally Carrera: (gasps)
(When Lightning was in the air, and flips but smashed to the field, and smoke coming out of Lightning's Engine and ????)
(Mater, Sally, Luigi, and Guido, rushed to Lightning's wreck while a tow truck, security cars and a fire truck came to help but Lightning was extremely badly injured as the scene faded to back)
(Four months, at Radiator springs)
Mike Joyride: (on a radio) Welcome to Piston. cup around-the-clock where we do nothing but talk racing let's get to it starting of course with Lightning McQueen the season start just two weeks away there's still no official announcement but with number 95 coming off his worst year on record don't shoot the messenger here folks I think it's safe to assume that Lightning McQueen's racing days are over meanwhile Jackson Storm is looking even faster than....
(Lightning, who was in primar, stops the radio and sadly sighs. Then, Lightning starts to watch the video about Doc racing)
Announcer: (in the video) The number six and the number 12 cars are still fighting it out to the lead. but wait, here he comes it's the fabulous Hudson hornet knocking at their door what's he got up his sleeve today and there it is with one incredible move he has passed them the hornet takes this decisive lead. he's left the pack behind his crew chief Smokey is loving it.. It's unbelievable! Oh no, he's in trouble! The Hudson Hornet has lost control! THE HUDSON HORNET HAS LOST CONTROL!!!
2nd Announcer: (in the video) What should been a scene of jubilation has turned tragic here today folks. Has we await news on the Hudson Hornet condition, after such a devastating crash we can only hope that this race today wasn't his last.
(Then, the video stops playing as Lightning was looking very sad while the flashback was shown)
Doc Hudson/The Fabulous Hudson Hornet: (in the flashback) when I finally got put together and went back expecting a big welcome, you know what they said? You are history, moved right on to the next rookie standing in line there was a lot left in me. I never got a chance to show
(As the flashback ends, Lightning looked at the newspaper about Doc's crash and Sally came in)
Sally Carrera: Hey, Stickers.
Lightning McQueen: Hey, Sal.
Sally Carrera: How are you feeling?
Lightning McQueen: Yeah, great. Really, really great.
Sally Carrera: Thinking about Doc again?
Lightning McQueen: [to Sally; about Doc Hudson] Yeah. You know they told him when he was done. He didn't decide. I don't want what happened to Doc... to happen to me.
Sally Carrera: But that hasn't happened.
Lightning McQueen: No. But I can't go out on the track and do the same old thing! It won't work!
Sally Carrera: Then chance it up, try something new.
Lightning McQueen: I don’t know, Sally, I...
Sally Carrera: Don’t fear failure. Be afraid of not having the chance. You have the chance. Doc didn’t. And you can either take it or you can do what you been doing. Sitting. In here. For months. and by the way I love what you've done with the place I mean the monster movie Lightning and the musky air freshener and don't let anyone tell you you're not working that primer because wow, I have never found you more attractive and now that i've been in here for a couple of minutes the stench i'm getting kind of used to it
Lightning McQueen: Okay, Sal, I get it. I get it.
Sally Carrera: I miss you, Lightning. We all do.
Lightning McQueen: Try something new, huh.
Mater: heyy, did it work Miss Sally did you set him straight with your lawyerly powers of persuasion is he ready to start training?
Sally Carrera: Well, stinky- Stickers.
Lightning McQueen: Yes, Mater, I am.
Mater: Whoo-hoo!
Lightning McQueen: I decide when I'm done.
Sally Carrera: I was hoping you'd say that.
Lightning McQueen: Okay, but I got an idea and I'm gonna need to talk to Rusty and Dusty, All right?
Mater: oh, i'll get them on the horn *Chuckles* get It? on the horn? *Honks And Laughs* oops, Hold on, got a sneeze. *Gasp* dadgum, I lost it. hey, I'll see you at Flo's. *Sneezes Loudly* I found it... Hey, watch your step.
Cruz Ramirez: You’re driving a little tense again, Ronald!
Student Ronald: No no no, I’m cool, I’m cool...!
Cruz Ramirez: Do your exercise!
[projects a cloud onto Ronald’s monitor]
Student Ronald: I am a fluffy cloud, I am a fluffy cloud...!!! I am a fluffy...
[calms down]
Student Ronald: ...cloud...
Cruz Ramirez: There you go!
Student Kurt: You’re a cloud!
[snickers]
Student Ronald: Shut up, Kurt!
Cruz Ramirez: Here comes the bugs, Kurt! You ready?
[sprays bugs in his face]
Student Kurt: Hey, I kept my eyes open this time!
Cruz Ramirez: Gotta see that track! Oh no, homesick again, Gabríel?
Student Gabríel: Sí...
[Cruz shows him a Mexican town]
Student Gabríel: Santa Sesilia! Mí publo!
Cruz Ramirez: Win for them.
Sterling: She train young racers to push through their own obstacles. Tailor-made for each one. Now she’s gonna work with you.
Cruz Ramirez: Let’s go! Let’s go! You guys got to work through this stuff... So when your big chance comes along you can take it.
Sterling: Hey, Cruz!
Cruz Ramirez: Oh, hey, Mr. Sterling!
Sterling: I'd like to introduce you to Lightning McQueen.
Lightning McQueen: [to Cruz] I hear you're the maestro.
[chuckles]
Cruz Ramirez: [ignoring Lightning] Mr. Sterling, did you say Lightning McQueen was here? Because...
[snorts]
Cruz Ramirez: I don't see him anywhere.
Luigi: Uh... but he's right here.
[gestures to McQueen]
Luigi: Do you not see him?
Cruz Ramirez: Nope. Still don't see him.
Luigi: But he is right in front of you! IT IS LIGHTNING MCQUEEN!
Cruz Ramirez: He's obviously an imposter.
[circles]
Cruz Ramirez: He looks old, and broken down.
Lightning McQueen: Hey!
Cruz Ramirez: With flabby tires!
[hits his front right tire]
Lightning McQueen: I do not!
Cruz Ramirez: Use that!
Lightning McQueen: Whoa! Oh, yeah. I see. I can use that energy for motivation, right?
[playfully growls]
Cruz Ramirez: It's all about motivation, Mr. McQueen. You can use anything negative as fuel to push through to the positive!
Lightning McQueen: I've been pretty positive since I was a rookie.
Cruz Ramirez: I am so excited that I get to train you. I grew up watching you on TV!
Lightning McQueen: Huh, is that right?
Cruz Ramirez: These young guys are great and all, but I like a challenge.
Lightning McQueen: Haha.
[half-mutters]
Lightning McQueen: Not that much older but —
Cruz Ramirez: In fact, I call you my..."Senior Project".
[Lightning looks confused.]
[As crazy Latin music plays, Cruz does her own workout routine while Lightning tries to follow along.]
Cruz Ramirez: We need to loosen those ancient joints! First, the wheels! And forward! And rest! And forward! And rest! Join me! Rest!
[pants three times]
Cruz Ramirez: And rest!
Lightning McQueen: Is all this resting necessary?
Cruz Ramirez: We’re working you in slowly! And reach for you lunch!
Lightning McQueen: Wha... hey, when I do...
Cruz Ramirez: Reach for your lunch! Now reach...
Lightning McQueen: Shouldn’t we be...
Cruz Ramirez: To the front! What is there?
Lightning McQueen: I-I don't think this is--
Cruz Ramirez: It's your lunch!!
[Lightning rolls his eyes.]
Cruz Ramirez: Now backwards! Is lunch there?
Lightning McQueen: When do we go on the simulator?
Cruz Ramirez: Good morning, Mr. McQueen. Looking good.
[Lightning is lifted on a hydraulic two post lift and tipped forward facing the floor]
Lightning McQueen: AHH!!!
[pants]
Lightning McQueen: Why?...
[we hear oil gush inside him]
Cruz Ramirez: This'll get oil to places it hasn't been in a long time!
[She slides something under him]
Lightning McQueen: Is that a... drip pan?!
Cruz Ramirez: Just in case.
Lightning McQueen: How old do you think I am?!
Cruz Ramirez: Visualize yourself driving fast on a steep hill. I’ll be back in a few.
Lightning McQueen: Visuali-–
[As Cruz drives away]
Lightning McQueen: Wait, wait, Cruz!! A few what!?! I just wanna go on the simulator!
Student: How’s it hangin’... Drip Pan?
[Lightning is on the treadmills with the other students; his speedometer is only 5mph while theirs are much higher.]
Student: Kurt: 'Sup?
[While waiting, Lightning suddenly hallucinates the floor waxer is closer to him]
Lightning: WHOA!!!!!
Floor waxer: You’re all washed up, McQueen.
Lightning: I-I’m sorry, what?
Floor waxer: I said, floor’s all washed up, we’re clean.
Lightning: Oh, right. [Chuckles to himself]
Sterling: [As Cruz drives out] ...Thank you very much.
Cruz: Uh... Good luck.
Sterling: Hey! Lightning! Come in, got something to show ya. You ready?
Lightning: Uh... for what? [He enters; Sterling shows him of array of Lightning McQueen-themed merchandise] Wow.
Sterling: You are about to become the best brand in racing. We are talking saturation on all continents for every demographic. Movie deals, infomercials, product endorsements!
Lightning: Mudflaps?
Sterling: Of course! We'll be rich beyond belief! You think you're famous now?
[Both laugh]
Lightning: Thought you'd be mad about the simulator, I mean th-this is all great, Mr. Sterling, I guess, but... I don't know. I never really thought of myself as a brand.
Sterling: Oh, nor do I. I'm a fan, maybe your most avid. I think of this as your legacy.
Lightning: [pause, chuckles weirly] That... that sounds like something that happens after you're... [with sudden realization] ...done racing. [Long pause] Mr. Sterling, what is this about?
Sterling: Look, Lightning. [inhales] I'm not gonna race you.
Lightning: [shocked] What? What do you mean, not race me?
Sterling: Hold on, hold on.
Lightning: I'm not going to Florida?
Sterling: Lightning! You have no idea how excited I was to get you here because I knew. I knew you'd be back! Was gonna be the comeback story of the year, but... your speed and performance just aren't where they need to be. I'm sorry.
Lightning: Wha... we're talking about speed on a simulator! Listen to how crazy that sounds!
Sterling: Look, I'm trying to help you. As your sponsor, yes, but also as your friend. Your racing days are coming to an end. Every time you lose, you damage yourself.
Lightning: Damage the brand, you mean?
Sterling: Oh, Lightning, come on! You've done the work, now move on the next phase and reap the reward!
Lightning: The racing is the reward, not the stuff! I - I don't wanna cash in, I - I wanna feel the rush of moving 200 miles an hour! Inches from the other guys, pushing myself faster than I thought I'd go! That's the reward, Mr. Sterling!
Sterling: Oh, Lightning, come on.
Lightning: Look, I can do this! I - I - I can, I promise! I - I - I'll train like I did with Doc! I-I'll get my tires dirty on every dirt track from here to Florida! I - I can start right there on Fireball Beach, where all the old greats used to race!
Sterling: Get your tires dirty? That's how you're gonna get faster than Storm?
Lightning: Yes! Exactly! I mean — sacred dirt, right? Mr. Sterling, if you care about my legacy, the one that Doc started, you'll let me do this! I promise you! I will win!
Sterling: [sighs] I don't know. What you're asking is too risky.
Lightning: Come on, you'll like it, I can tell! It's got that little comeback story of the year feel, doesn't it?!
Sterling: [sighs and rolls his eyes; pauses] One race? [Lightning nods] If you don't win at Florida, you retire?
Lightning: Look, if I don't win, I'll sell all the mudflaps you got. But if I do win, I decide when I'm done. Deal?
Sterling: [pauses] Deal.
Lightning: Thank you, Mr. Sterling. You won't be sorry.
Sterling: Just one thing, and this is only because I don't like taking chances: you're taking someone with you.
[Lightning starts to leave but stops, speechless.]
Cruz Ramirez: You talked him into it. Way to go Mr. McQueen!
Lightning McQueen: Cruz!
Cruz Ramirez: You could talk a snowmobile into an air conditioner!
Lightning McQueen: You're going with me with that thing?
Cruz Ramirez: Yeah, you still need my help. You're brittle like a fossil.
Lightning McQueen: I don't need a trainer out here Cruz
Cruz Ramirez: You're old what if you have fallen on this beach and can't get up
Lightning McQueen: Well, life's a beach. And then you drive.
[Pauses; Luigi and Guido snicker.]
Luigi: ha ha McQueen..
Lightning McQueen: Heh, thank you.
Cruz Ramirez: This is beautiful! I can see why Mr. Sterling said you wanted to train out here. As soon as this thing is booted up, we'll get you on the treadmill and I'll track your speed.
Lightning McQueen: What?! No!! The whole idea is gettin’ my tires dirty! Real racing! I’m not drivin’ on that when I got the sand, and the whole Earth!
[The treadmill finishes booting up]
Cruz Ramirez: [crushed] Oh, okay...
[Starts packing it away real slowly]
Lightning McQueen: Luigi, let’s do this.
Luigi: Welcome racers, to Fireball Beach! Historical for today's great test of speed! Our finish line will be the abandoned pier in the distance!
Lightning McQueen: [under his breath] All right...quicker than quick...
[closes eyes]
Lightning McQueen: ...faster than fast. I... am... speed...
Cruz Ramirez: That is great self-motivation! Did you come up with that?
Lightning McQueen: Yeah, I did!
Luigi: On your mark, get set... GO!
[Lightning zooms forward and finishes at the pier]
Lightning McQueen: Whoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! There you go! Felt good!
[drives back to Cruz]
Lightning McQueen: Hey, what was my speed?
Cruz Ramirez: I don't know. I can only track you on the treadmill.
Lightning McQueen: No treadmills!
Cruz Ramirez: Oh. What about Hamilton?
Hamilton: Hamilton here.
Lightning McQueen: Who's "Hamilton"?
Cruz Ramirez: My electronic personal assistant. Y'know, like on your phone. [chuckles; pause] You do have a phone, don't you?
Lightning McQueen: Race cars don't have phones, Cruz.
Cruz Ramirez: Hamilton, track Mr. McQueen's Speed and report it.
Hamilton: Tracking.
Cruz Ramirez: I’ll stay as close as I can. Your suit will transmit your speeds to Hamilton.
Lightning McQueen: Fine, whatever! Let’s do this. [Back at the start] Quicker that quick, faster than fast, I am speed! C’mon, Luigi!
Luigi: On your mark, get-a set... and go!
[Lightning speeds off]
Hamilton: 46 miles per hour. 53 miles... Out of range. Out of range. Out of range.
[Lightning skids to a stop; Cruz is still at the start.]
Cruz Ramirez: Huh. That’s odd, I didn’t go!
[Tries to drive but can't]
[Back at the start]
Lightning McQueen: On sand, you gotta ease into your start, so your tires can grab, okay?
Cruz Ramirez: Okay!
Lightning McQueen: You do work for race cars, don’t you?
Cruz Ramirez: Yeah, but never outside.
Lightning McQueen: A'right, let’s go again!
Luigi: Go!
[Both take off.]
Hamilton: 54 miles per hour.
Lightning McQueen: There you go!
Hamilton: 75 miles per hour. Out of ranger. Out of range. Out of range.
Lightning McQueen: Huh?
[skids to a stop]
Cruz Ramirez: [having crashed into a bank of sand] Sorry! Got stuck!
Lightning McQueen: Go again!
Luigi: And go!
Cruz Ramirez: [having skidded into the water; a waves hits her] Sorry.
Luigi: Go.
Cruz Ramirez: [slides out of control] Ohhhhhhhh...!
Luigi: [completely irritated] Go....
Cruz Ramirez: [sinks into the sand until only her eyes are visible] The beach ate me.
[Now it is cloudy]
Lightning McQueen: All right, Cruz, pick a line on the compacted sand. Ya gotta have traction or you’re gonna spin out!
[flexes his tire]
Lightning McQueen: Let’s do this thing!
Luigi: [getting bored] On your mark, get set, go.
[Both takes off]
Hamilton: 122 miles per hour. 134 miles... Out of range. Out of range. Out of range.
Lightning McQueen: [stops once again] NOW WHAT?!
[Cruz suddenly came to a stop]
Cruz Ramirez: I don’t wanna hit a crab!
Lightning McQueen: You gotta be kidding me...
Cruz Ramirez: What? It was cute!
Lightning McQueen: Ugh!
[Now it’s sunset]
Lightning McQueen: All right, one last chance to try this before it gets dark! Now you’re gonna take off slow to let your tires grab.
Cruz Ramirez: Yes.
Lightning McQueen: And pick a straight line on the hard sand so you don’t spit out!
Cruz Ramirez: Uh-huh!
Lightning McQueen: And alllllll of the crabbies have gone night-night!
Cruz Ramirez: Mr. McQueen...
Lightning McQueen: All right, let’s go again!
Luigi: [completely irritated] And go...
[They take off for the final time; Cruz manages to stay behind him all the way.]
Hamilton: 150 miles per hour. 175 miles per hour. 196 miles per hour.
[They reach the abandoned pier together.]
Lightning McQueen: Woohoohoo!! All right! Finally! You made it! Congratulations, how’d I do?
Cruz Ramirez: You topped out at 198.
Lightning McQueen: 198, That’s it?
Cruz Ramirez: Still slower than Storm.
Lightning McQueen: Wasted my whole day.
Cruz Ramirez: I wouldn't say that. It did feel great to be out here doing real racing.
Lightning McQueen: This isn't real racing. We're on a beach! All you do is go straight. How am I gonna get faster if I don't...? [reads the sign] "Thunder Hollow". Thunder Hollow! There's a dirt track there! That's what I need! To race against actual racers.
Luigi: No! Too public! If the press finds you, there will be like many, many bugs on you.
Guido: Paparazzi. [spits]
Lightning McQueen: Guys, I really need this!
Mack: Ah, just leave it to me, boss. I am a master of disguise.
Female Racer: All right! Next!
Lightning McQueen: [coughs and spits]
Mack: You, sir, are officially incognito. Nobody's bothering you.
Luigi: The great Lightning McQueen.
Lightning McQueen: I can feel it, guys. Tonight is the night I find my speed!
Announcer: Racers, get on over to the starting line! Pronto!
Lightning McQueen: All right! No more straight lines. Just a good old-fashioned oval.
Roscoe: Hey, now! You that out-of-towner?
Lightning McQueen: Uh, yes. That's me! Chester Whipplefilter.
Cruz Ramirez: And I'm Frances Beltline.
Lightning McQueen: Cruz, what are you doing?
Cruz Ramirez: I'm your trainer. I'm going to track your speed from the infield, Whipplefilter.
Lightning McQueen: Fine. Just stay out of the way. Excuse me, sir. what are the other racers?
Roscoe: Oh, they'll be along. We always let our guests started right up front.
Announcer: Welcome, y'all, to Thunder Hollow Speedway for tonight's edition of Crazy Eight!
Lightning McQueen: Did he say Crazy Eight? Whoa.
Announcer: Race fans! It's time to meet tonight's challengers!
Arvy: Have a nice trip.
APB: Protect and swerve!
[Lightning discovers he and Cruz have snuck into a demolition derby]
Lightning McQueen: Cruz, this isn't what I thought it was. Come on! Follow me and we'll slip out!
[The gate closes right before they can escape.]
Roscoe: Rule number 1: Gate closes, you race.
Cruz Ramirez: [gasps as someone spraypaints #20 on her side] Wait, no, no, no! I'm not a racer!!
Roscoe: Rule number 2: Last car standin' wins! And rule number 3: No cursing. It's Family Night.
[leaves]
Lightning McQueen: Excuse me? Sir...?!
Cruz Ramirez: Wait! No! I'm just a trainer!
[They are dragged back to the track.]
Racer: Whoo!
Announcer: And make way for the undefeated Crazy Eight champion, the Diva of Demolition, Miss Fritter!
Miss Fritter: Boo! [laughs] Lookie here, boys. We got us a couple of rookies. I'm gonna call you Muddy Britches and you Lemonade.
Arvy: Hey, neither one of them has a single dent.
Miss Fritter: Oh, I'm gonna fix that!
Announcer: All right, everybody! Let's go racing!
Miss Fritter: [cackles] I'm about to commit a moving violation.
Lightning McQueen: Ow!
Miss Fritter: [grunts]
Announcer: Boo!
Lightning McQueen: Cruz!
Racer: Ha-ha! Watch out.
Lightning McQueen: What are you doing? Got to keep moving!
Cruz Ramirez: I shouldn't be out here! [shrieks]
Lightning McQueen: Move, Cruz! Move!
Cruz Ramirez: What do I do? I can't steer!
Lightning McQueen: Turn right to go left! Turn right to go left!
Cruz Ramirez: That doesn't make any sense!
Lightning McQueen: Turn right to go left!
[racer whooping]
Lightning McQueen: Whoa!
Bill: Hey, Patty.
Patty: Oh, hey, Bill!
Lightning McQueen: Ahhhh! [yelps]
T-Bone: Whoo-hoo! Look, Ma, I can drive... Oh, man!
Arvy: Nice day for a drive, huh?
Faregame: Hey, buddy! Get the [honks] out of my way!
Arvy: Whoo-hoo!
Faregame: Hey! I'm driving...
Arvy: Oh, look at my new hat!
Superfly: [whooping] I'm flying! No! I'm not flying...
Car: Get it. Get it.
Fan: I got it!
Lightning McQueen: Cruz!
Dr. Damage: Oh.
Cabbie Taxi: Hey, buddy! Move it!
Cruz Ramirez Turn right to go left. Turn right to go left. Whoa, whoa. Whoa!
Miss Fritter: Here I come, boy!
Taco: No, no, no!
Cruz Ramirez Oh, no.
Announcer: Buckle up, everybody! It's Fritter Time!
[the crowd chants 'Fritter']
Miss Fritter: Fritter! Fritter! Fritter!
Mr. Drippy: We love you, Miss Fritter.
Miss Fritter: Oh, yeah! Your license plate's gonna look real nice in my collection.
Cruz Ramirez Oh, boy.
Jimbo: Run!
Lightning McQueen: Oh, no.
Miss Fritter: Remember, obey all appropriate street signs.
Lightning McQueen: Cruz!
Announcer: Oh, my gracious! Miss Fritter's down!
Miss Fritter: Nobody touches him. He is mine!
RV Fan: You go get it now, Whipplefilter!
Lightning McQueen: Come on, McQueen. You can do it. Come on, Lightning, keep going!
Announcer: Miss Fritter is looking to get upright, folks. She is not pleased.
Car: Get up! Get up!
Crowd: Fritter! Fritter!
Miss Fritter: You about to feel the wrath of the Lower Belleville County Unified School District! Oh! What the... Wait... [screams] No, no, no! No! No!
Announcer: Ladies and gentleman, we have a winner! Frances Beltline!
Cruz Ramirez Is that me? That's me! I won! I won!
Lightning McQueen: Cruz! Cruz! No!
Cruz Ramirez Ahhh! Watch out!
Mr. Drippy: Whoa, whoa! [whimpers]
RV Fan: Whipplefilter! It's Lightning McQueen!
[crowd screaming]
Car: McQueen!
(Later, Mack drives along)
Fan: (on TV) Fans here still buzzing over tonight's unexpected appearance of Lightning McQueen.
Miss Fritter: (on TV) He was always been my favorite! My garage is filled with head to toe in 95 posters.
(Lightning stares at Cruz and the Thunder Hollow Trophy)
Cruz Ramirez: So, trophy's kind of nice. Don't you think?
(Lightning just stares)
Cruz Ramirez: I mean, I know you got a billion of them, so you would know.
Lightning McQueen: (enraged) Stop! Just stop! Okay, Cruz? You don't even know. You don't even have one clue!
Cruz Ramirez: Hey! I was just trying to —
(Guido and Luigi watch as Mack is hearing McQueen angry at Cruz)
Lightning McQueen: Do you know what happens if I lose this race?! Every mile of this trip was to get me faster than Jackson Storm. Faster! I start off getting nowhere for a week, on a simulator! I lose a whole day with you on Fireball Beach! And then, I waste tonight in the crosshairs of Miss Fritter! I'm stuck in the same speed I was a month ago! I can't get any faster, because I'm too busy TAKING CARE OF MY TRAINER!!! This is my last chance, Cruz! Last! Final! Finito! If I lose, I'd never get to do this again! If you were a racer, you'd know what I'm talking about, but you're not! So you don't!
(Lightning angrily hits his tire on the wall, which the Thunder Hollow trophy falls and breaks, Cruz gasps at McQueen's words and looks at it in shock. Then after a short pause, Cruz turns angry.)
Cruz Ramirez: Mack, pull over!
Mack: What? Now?
Cruz Ramirez: NOW! (angrily presses the button to open the door with sparks flewing)
Mack: AH! Okay, okay! Pulling over! Pulling over!
(Mack pulls over, and Cruz leaves the trailer.)
Cruz Ramirez: Ask me if I dreamed of being a trainer, Mr. McQueen, go ahead! Ask me if I got up, in the dark, to run laps before school every day! Ask me if I saved every penny to buy a ticket to the races when they came to town. Ask me if I did that so that I could be a trainer someday. Ask me.
Lightning McQueen: Did you...
Cruz Ramirez: NO! I wanted to become a racer forever! Because of you! I used to watch you on TV, flying through the air. You seemed so... fearless. Dream small, Cruz. That’s what my family used to say. Dream small, or not at all. They were just trying to protect me. But I was the fastest kid in town, and I was gonna prove them wrong.
Lightning McQueen: What happened?
Cruz Ramierez: When I got to my first race, I figured it out.
Lightning McQueen: What...?
Cruz Ramirez: That I didn’t belong. The other racers looked nothing like me, they… they were bigger, and stronger and so… confident. And when they started their engines, that was it. I knew I’d never be a racer. I just left. It was my one shot, and I didn't take it.
[Cruz looks down while Lightning looks extremely remorseful]
Cruz Ramirez: Yeah, so, I'm gonna head back to the training center. I think we both know it's for the best.
(turns to drive away, but then turns to him)
Cruz Ramirez: But can I ask you something? What was it like for you? When you showed up to your first race. How did you know you could do it?
Lightning McQueen: I don't know. I guess I just never thought that I couldn't.
Cruz Ramirez: I wish I knew what that felt like.
(to McQueen)
Cruz Ramirez: Good luck, Mr. McQueen.
(drives away)
Lightning McQueen: Cruz. Cruz, wait.
(But Cruz has already disappeared)
Lightning McQueen: (sighs)
(Later that night, Lightning watches the tv)
TV: Champion for the ages
(Lightning was Change Channel)
Chick Hicks: (on TV) Chick Hicks here coming to you live from Chick Hicks studios where i'm joined once again by next-gen racing expert, Natalie Certain
Natalie Certain: (on TV) thanks Chick, Piston Cup champion Jackson Storm set a new record today when he pulled off the fastest lap ever recorded an unprecedented 213 miles an hour so what do you think Certain Stormy boy gonna start the the season with another win
Mater: [singing] ♪ First you find a clamp from a rusty vamp. Bump bump. Quicker than a dart, make it into art. Bump bump. That's the way it's done, it's a lot of fun. Bump bump. Lifting my funk making sculptures out of junk ♪ Ha-ha! What's it? There we go, somebody's interrupting genius. Well, hey there, buddy!
Lightning McQueen: Mater!
Mater: You know, I was just thinking of you and here you are looking right at me. You see me okay? Wait a second, hold on. Let me see here. That better?
Lightning McQueen: Looking you straight in the eye there, pal. Hey, sorry about calling so late,
Mater: Not for me it's not. I'm always burning that midnight oil so get me caught up on everything.
Lightning McQueen: Well, actually kind of hoping I might hear what's going on back home.
Mater: Well, not much, but if you don't count Sarge and Fillmore trying to run the tire shop, but tell Luigi not to worry Sarge is gonna track down every last tire that Fillmore done gived away. Other than that, everything's good.
Lightning McQueen: How's Sally?
Mater: Oh, she's fine, keepin' busy at the cone. She misses you. Well, shoot, we all do when you're on the road.
Lightning McQueen: Yeah. You know, I've been kind of thinking about that. You know, what would you do when I'm not on the road anymore?
Mater: What do you mean, "not on the road"?
Lightning McQueen: Well... you know... Mater, I can’t do this forever.
Mater: Huh?!
Lightning McQueen: I... I’m just not getting anywhere with the training, with anything, I’ve gotten slower, not faster.
Mater: Shoot, buddy, it’ll work out! Just tell me what the problem is and I’ll Stay right here with you, till we fix it.
Lightning McQueen: That’s just it, Mater, I don’t know... and feel like I’m all out of ideas...
Mater: [talking to Lightning on his smartphone] Hmm... All right, let me think. Oh. You know what I'd do?
Lightning McQueen: What?
[Pauses]
Mater: I don't know. I got nothin'. I guess ain't Doc when it comes to that.
Lightning McQueen: I’d give anything to talk to him right now.
Mater: Yep, there was nobody smarter than old Doc. Well, except for, maybe, whoever taught him.
Lightning McQueen: Yeah... Wait, what?
Mater: I mean, everybody was taught by somebody, right? Take my cousin, Doyle. He taught me how to sing and whistle at the same time, he was very musical that way.
Lightning McQueen: Smokey? [gains hope] Mater, you’re brilliant.
Mater: Ah, well, ha-ha, it’s all about the shape of your teeth.
Lightning McQueen: I get to go to Thomasville!
Mater: Oh, well, good. You know me, buddy, I'm always happy to help. Think I'm better at that than most folks. You know, talkin' and stuff.
(Meanwhile, Cruz is driving back the Racing Centre when Mack honking his horn. toots He drives in front of her and lowers his trailer door to reveal McQueen and the team)
Lightning McQueen: Hey, Cruz!
Cruz Ramirez: You won't talk me out of this, Mr. McQueen! I'm going back! I resign as your trainer!
Lightning McQueen: Okay. I accept you resignation.
(as the trailer door closes)
Lightning McQueen: Bye.
Cruz Ramirez: (confused) Okay.
Lightning McQueen: But since you've cleaned your calender, why don't you come with us? I'm looking for someone named Smokey hoping he can help me. Maybe he can help you too.
Cruz Ramirez: Nah.
Lightning McQueen: Come on.
(shows Cruz he fixed her trophy with tape)
Lightning McQueen: I fixed it.
Cruz Ramirez: No. Thanks anyway, but I'm done.
Lightning McQueen: Okay. But maybe this will change your mind.
(to Gudio And Luigi)
Lightning McQueen: Hit it!
(Gudio And Luigi puts on music)
Lightning McQueen: First, I'm gonna loosen up these ancient joints!
(starts dancing with the team joining in and laughing)
Cruz Ramirez: No, please don't.
Lightning McQueen: I'm sorry, I'm sorry~ I'm sorry that I yelled~ It wasn't your fault that I almost got killed~
Cruz Ramirez: Stop.
Lightning McQueen: And now you're leaving~
Cruz Ramirez: Okay, I'll go.
Lightning McQueen: And you won't get on the ramp~ You won't get on the ramp~
Cruz Ramirez: I said, I'll go. Just stop.
Cruz Ramirez Ho do you know Smokey's going to be here?
Lightning McQueen: I don't.
Cruz Ramirez: Oh. Do you know if he's even alive?
Lightning McQueen: Nope.
Cruz Ramirez: Okay? So tell me this: how do you know if it's Smokey? Is there such...
Lightning McQueen: Wait. Mack, pull over! Back it up! Back it up. Good to see you, Doc.
Cruz Ramirez: Hey, isn't that your old crew chief?
Lightning McQueen: Hey, Cruz? You want to check out the home track of the greatest racer ever?
Cruz Ramirez: Aren't we supposed to be looking for Smokey? Oh, that's right, he's dead.
Lightning McQueen: We don't know that.
Cruz Ramirez: Are you sure you have time for this?
Lightning McQueen: For this, I do. Wow! If this track could talk. Cruz, what do you say? Let's take a lap. Oh, yeah!
Cruz Ramirez: Oh, whoa!
Lightning McQueen: Yes! You nailed it!
Cruz Ramirez: Way easier without the school bus of death trying to kill us!
Lightning McQueen: Yeah, no kidding!
Smokey: Was starting to think I might never meet you.
Lightning McQueen: Smokey?
Cruz Ramirez: He is alive.
Smokey: I know why you're here. You're thirsty. I'll tell you what, these folks are gonna get a kick out of meeting Hud's boy.
'Cruz Ramirez: Who's Hud? Oh, Doc Hudson! Right.
Smokey: Hey! Act civilized. We got company. Hey, Les. How's that back axle treating you?
Les: Hey, sugar. Welcome to Thomasville.
Lightning McQueen: [laughing] Would you look at that?
Cruz Ramirez: What?
Lightning McQueen: Three of the biggest racing legends ever! Junior "Midnight" Moon. River Scott. Louise...
Cruz Ramirez: Louise "Barnstormer" Nash? She had 38 wins!
Louise "Barnstormer" Nash: Well, as I live and breathe. If it ain't Lightning McQueen.
Lightning McQueen: Ms. Nash, it's a pleasure to meet you...
Louise "Barnstormer" Nash: You've had a tough year, haven't you?
Lightning McQueen: Oh, uh...
River Scott: Shouldn't you be running practice laps in Florida by now?
Smokey: Lesson 1: you're old. Accept it.
Cruz: I told him that.
Smokey: He's probably losin' his hearing.
Cruz: [shouting] He said you're old and losing!
Lightning: [annoyed] I heard him!
Smokey: You'll never be as fast as Storm. But you can be smarter than him.
Lightning: Okay, what do I do?
Smokey: They said you were in a...demolition derby.
Lightning: Yeah! It was terrible! And I was —
Smokey: Sure? 'Cause there's not a scratch on ya. [Lightning looks around to see absolutely no damage] Funny what a racer can do when he's not overthinking things.
Bob Cutlass: Welcome to racing's greatest day we're beachside at the Florida international speedway to kick off a new season of Piston Cup racing it's the Florida 500.
Darrell Cartrip: 43 cars in a quarter million fans await today's intense contest of strategy, skill but most of all speed. This crowd is in for one great day of racing.
Bob Cutlass: I'm Bob Cutlass joined as always by my broadcasting partner Darrell Cartrip and stat sensation Natalie Certain.
Natalie Certain: I've never seen the numbers lineup for Storm like they do today Bob Storm should be ninety six point eight percent unstoppable.
Bob Cutlass: Well, don't overlook Lightning McQueen.
Miss Fritter: Whipple Filter.
Bob Cutlass: We've heard stories of the unusual way McQueen trained to get here now the question is did it work?
Lightning McQueen: Speed. I am... speed.
Mack: Hey boss, they are calling the racers to the track.
Announcer: Jeff Gorvette, How does today's talent stack up?
Jeff Gorvette Oh I think we're in for a treat today these racers... Hey, McQueen. Win one for us old guys...
Lightning McQueen: Will do, Jeff...
Mater: Hey there, Buddy.
Lightning McQueen: Hey, guys.
Sally Carrera: Stickers.
Lightning McQueen: Hey Sal.
Sally Carrera: Are you okay?
Lightning McQueen: Yeah yeah... Absolutely.
Sally Carrera: Listen, you’re gonna do great today. And no matter what happens... I’m going to move onto the next rookie and forget I ever knew you.
Lightning McQueen: I’m glad you’re here.
Jackson Storm: [to Cruz wearing her Storm getup] Oh ho ho ho, wow! Nice costume! Come here, let's get a picture. It's so great to meet my number one fan.
Sally Carrera: [scoffs] What a jerk.
Lightning McQueen: [drives up to Jackson] She's not a fan, Storm.
Jackson Storm: Oh, hey there, champ. I heard you're selling mudflaps after today. Is that true? You put me down for the first case, okay?
(TBA)
Jackson Storm: Would you stop that? You’re taking me off my line!
Lightning McQueen: This is it! Final Lap!
Smokey: Come on, Cruz!
Cruz Ramirez: Uh, oh! My GPS is saying i have slow traffic in my way.
Cruzz Ramirez: Uh, you're angry!
Jackson Storm: I am not angry!
Cruz Ramirez: You know, you can use that anger to push through.
Jackson Storm: I SAID I'M NOT ANGRY!!!
[Cruz droves across Jackson Storm]
Jackson Storm: I don't think so! NO!!
[Jackson rams Cruz and getting closer to the finish line]
Lightning McQueen: Cruz! Get outta there!
Jackson Storm: You don't belong on this track!
Cruz Ramirez: YES... I... DO!!!
[Cruz bounces off a wall and flips over Jackson exactly how Doc did. She overtakes him and to win the Florida 500]
Sterling: Cruz!...I knew you had something, and now look at you. A winner. I could use you as a racer on our team. We could —
Cruz Ramirez: Sorry, Mr. Sterling. I would never race for you. I quit.
Tex: [honks as he and Strip Weathers drive up] Well then, race for me!
Lightning McQueen: Tex!
Tex: Miss Cruz, I would be tickled pink to have you race for Team Dinoco. As you know, we have a long history of great racers... 'cept for Cal.
Cal: [peeking out] Uh, guys? I'm still right here!
Lightning McQueen: Team Dinoco, Cruz!
Sterling: [sarcastically] Hire her. I don't care. Lightning, now that you're retired, I need you first thing Monday morning for a photo shoot.
Lightning McQueen: [sadly] Yeah, alright, Mr. Sterling.
Smokey: Whoa! Hang on, now!
[The winner board is updated to show both Cruz and Lightning won as #1; the crowds cheer]
Lightning McQueen: What? Why is my name up there?
Smokey: You started the race, that's how it works.
Sterling: Wait, wait, now, wait a minute... no!
Sally: Uh... Lightning wins, he decides when he's done racing. That was the deal. Hi, I'm his lawyer.
Mater: [singsonging] That was the deal! You are not a nice guy! But seriously, I gotta say you do make a quality mudflap on an affordable price.
Tex: Ahem! Hey, Sterling, why don't you and I take a drive and talk?
[escorts Sterling away as they drive]
Tex: Billionaire to billionaire...
[The press starts surrounding Cruz as Lightning looks on happily]
Lightning McQueen: Kid's got a lot of stuff...eh, Doc?
Sally: [driving up to Lighting] Well, she had a great teacher.
[pause]
Sally: And now, you get to decide when you're done racing. So what's it gonna be, Stinky...uh, Stickers?
[Pause, Lightning smiles]
Lightning McQueen: [chuckling confidently] Oh, I'm gonna keep racing. But before that, I had something I wanna do...
[Last lines]
Luigi: Welcome all, to historical Willy's-a Butte! For today's great exhibition of speed!
[Cruz drives up, now wearing Dinoco decals and has the number 51]
Cruz Ramirez: [giggles] Thanks, guys!
Louise Nash: Nice paint, kiddo!
Mater: [pushes his way forward wearing a Dinoco hat] Pardon me! Big hat, comin' through! Git-r-done, 51! Woooohoo!!
Sally Carrera: Oh, it's perfect, it's very old school.
Lightning McQueen: Did someone just say "old school"?
[Lightning comes forward, now in a dark blue paint job reminiscent of Doc's, with similar decals and a logo reading "FABULOUS LIGHTNING MCQUEEN"; ZZ Ward's "Ride" plays in the background; his bottom back reads "For Doc Hudson"]
Smokey: Whoa-ho!
Sally Carrera: Trying something new! I like it!
Cruz: Wow, subtle...
Lightning McQueen: Figured if I'm gonna be your crew chief, I'd better do it in style.
Cruz: What's Mr. Sterling gonna say?
Lightning McQueen: I'm actually more worried about what Tex is gonna say, considering he uh... bought Rust-Eze. Thanks, Tex!
Tex: [honks] I made that Sterling fella a Texas-sized offer!
Lightning McQueen: So, ready to start training?
Cruz: I don't know... you ready to lose again?
Lightning McQueen: Ohh! Hope you got your fluffy cloud!
Cruz: I hope you got your drip pan!
Lightning McQueen: Got my drip pan, and I've... takin' my nap?!
Cruz: Bring it on, old man!
Lightning McQueen:
Luigi: [waves his flag] GO!
Lightning and Cruz: Wahoo!!
[together, they race around Willy's Butte; Cruz passes him just as they get their photo taken, which hangs on the wall of Doc's garage next to the photo of Lightning and Doc racing the same way.]
[post-credits scene for last lines]
Mater: [singing] ♪ My cup holder's happy, my tank is full. My engine's running like a Brahma bull. My bumpers are polished and talk about luck. I just got a date with an ice cream truck. ♪
[laughs as his smartphone rings]
Mater: Huh?
[knocks over a pile of tires]
Mater: Aah! Shoot. Hey, McQueen, you still there? McQueen? Ugh. Technology!
